---
layout: post
title: Thoughts on R
---


In the past I have worked in both SAS and Python, so R is a new language for me. R is interesting for a number of reasons, particularly because of the functionality of R Markdown capabilities. 

I've never thought of using a programming language to make slides or documents. It always seemed easier to use the Microsoft suite and just copy and paste graphs and tables into PowerPoint or Word, perhaps then converting the file to a pdf. It's not that I think the Microsoft products are unprofessional - I think I've made some pretty good stuff with it over the years - it's that the look and feel is a little... immature. R markdown makes files *feel* like they were produced by somebody who knows what they are doing as opposed to someone working on their high school history final. The tables look professional, the type font looks more classy (albeit a little boring) and the graphs look like they were generated professionally.

R also makes for a "best of both worlds" between SAS and Python. My biggest complaint about SAS has to be the inability to do much non-statistics work. Once you have input your data, run your model and generated your very ugly graphs and tables (if you use the default settings), you can save the output in a table and not much else, thus truly living up to the language billing of being software for statistics. You can do quite a variety of statistical analysis with it, but once it's done, it is usually required that you move the output out of SAS and into another language to do anything with it.

Python has all of the functionality that SAS doesn't. You can take output and make it visually stunning, upload it to the internet on a website and be interactive with it in ways that would be either impossible or very clunky in SAS. You can also scrape data from the web, which is a great plus! The big drawback, however, is that the statistical capabilities in Python are limited in the well-known statistical packages (scikit learn and statsmodels). So with Python, you can do a lot of things with your output once you have it, but if you need to do anything beyond some of the most basic statistical procedures, you might need to do that in another language first.

With R, you have access to a wide variety of statistical packages, like SAS does, but you also have a lot of the functionality that is desirable from Python.

I'm not sure how to guage if R is easy or tough to learn. For me it is really easy because it is so similar to Python in so many ways and it looks familiar to me. I imagine it is not bad for anyone at least a little familiar with object-based programming languages.

Overall, I am very fond of R. i think it is a great language with a lot of great functionality. I don't really miss SAS at all and while I like Python both because of what it can do and because I am used to it, I am much more excited about the possibilities with R than I am concerned about what I will be missing from Python.
